---
aliases: []
tags: []
publish: true
permalink:
date created: Monday, February 3rd 2025, 8:46 am
date modified: Monday, February 3rd 2025, 9:33 pm
---

# I want to go to space...knowledge space

I used to want to be an astronaut.  Seeing where the space industry is going...it could be possible one day, God willing.  No shortage of ideas and more just a shortage of problem solvers that can match up the ideas to reality ([2025-01-02-Thursday](../../01/2025-01-02-Thursday/2025-01-02-Thursday.md)).  If super intelligent AI becomes a thing soon though, then I'm sure many things become possible all of the sudden - including our ability to quickly create large-scale issues with our velocity.  We would need to be able to feed lots of our human ideas though as language into a machine readable format and structure (the internet).  Typing, as I'm doing now, is quite slow.  This really limits our ability to create a super intelligent since it's limited to the "vision" or understanding of humans and what we communicate as language onto the internet.  However, I think that creating these "digital gardens" is a good step in the right direction.  They function as a sort of "second brain" which is perfect for training AI on.  It structures our concepts in a not-so-perfect way ([ðŸ“ 17 - Knowledge Engineering](../../../../ðŸ“%2017%20-%20Knowledge%20Engineering/ðŸ“%2017%20-%20Knowledge%20Engineering.md)), and yet, it's the best we've got right now for any normal person to start communicating and sharing their ideas in this way.  Wikipedia is kind of like NASA.  They built the first good version of a knowledge platform, but it's really slow, clunky looking, not too pretty, and can't be used by lots of people.  I know it's a long shot, but it would be pretty cool if I could have a part in the new era of knowledge platforms that think bigger.  Obsidian has definitely sparked something there.

I'm trying currently build a very naive version of that with this all contributory nexus sort of system that I'm ideating and building and mostly procrastinating on.  However, to me, it's the best way that I've got in front of me.  Obsidian is an agnostic knowledge platform.  If I can create a system to translate that ([ðŸ“ 51 - Cyberbase](../../../../ðŸ“%2051%20-%20Cyberbase/ðŸ“%2051%20-%20Cyberbase.md)) into nodes that live on the internet and can be edited by other people, then AI can also learn faster and with things people want to own.  Usually, only companies have websites.  Companies have constrained ideas and you can't share any of the spicy ideas you have.  Blogs are good too, but they have a high bar of entry.  Obsidian can function as a knowledge space for knowledge work (#1), but at the same time double as a space to share and communicate that knowledge to people and AI (#2).  With great power comes great responsibility though.  For the same reason that security and privacy exist, you have to somehow decide what information can be communicated to who.  The authorization part of this problem is actually pretty difficult.  The whole thing here is that knowledge work and problem-solving can be helped on a larger scale by making it easier for people to create their own little "second brains."  It also helps people actually do whatever job they do better, and with Obsidian, can be made to their liking.  The hard place I'm trying to figure out is taking this very open and flexible knowledge platform and being able to translate it the current form of the web.  If this happens, then AI doesn't just have to crawl these inorganic structures, but could crawl and train off of things that having meaning baked into the structures themselves.  In other words, you communicate way more to the AI that could help us solve future problems.  Just an idea.

All of this brings in another topic too.  Would writing ever becomes stupid to do?  Would people be communicating with networks of neural networks with some representing one topic, some one person, and some a whole company.  This is an interesting thought.  At that point, websites would become a silly idea and everyone would be using their neural chips to communicate.  I imagine this have caveats where using the other senses is still valuable though.  

# Don't wager your eternity

Apathy towards the ultimate reality can be a fatal mistake.  The opposite of this would be true religion in the sense.  It would be a fear of God - or put euphemistically a respect of the seriousness of God.

> [!quote] Religion is fundamentally the act of rendering to God what is due to Him, and it is primarily composed of divine worship.Â All acts of religion are human acts that involve the rational faculties of intellect and will.
> 
> - Thomas Aquinas

Some have defined religion as an act of will towards an acknowledged ultimate reality or deity.  Any way that you cut it, the questions of the afterlife and eternity have important implications.  Pascal's Wager doesn't say that you should live as if there is a God as is the modern case with instances of "political Christianity."  Rather, it shows that one should orient themselves to answer those questions so as to point themselves in the right direction.  Some may be more inquisitive than others too.  Choosing to not look into things makes a person less ignorant and therefore more accountable to those decisions.  


