---
aliases: []
tags: []
publish: true
permalink:
date created: Thursday, February 20th 2025, 8:12 pm
date modified: Thursday, February 20th 2025, 9:18 pm
---

# The smallest works can be done with a noble heart

I can't deny the fun of solving difficult problems that are unique in their scope or scale, but I've loved working for a smaller company.  Actually, maybe I like the people...but maybe it's more than just that.  All work can be noble.  We aren't our missions.  To define oneself by ones "mission" doesn't necessarily point your life in the right direction.  For the most part, it misses the point.  A mission after all is meant to be a way forward to something.  If you make everything about the way rather than that ultimate destination, then you'll lose your identity.  Sure - "it's the cliiiiiiiimb" in that life can be joyful despite the circumstances, but that doesn't mean that life is all about the climbing.  You could do "amazing" things for human society but not have the right reasons.  You can even have the right reasons and do terrible things for society.

(CCC 531) Jesus had a hidden life that we don't get much of in the Bible.  His life is marked by ordinariness.  He had lives more like ours than we realize.  Work that is done with a noble heart is not beneath the Lord.  

Often, I am tempted with prideful ambitions and burdened by the passions of doing something "great" in the eyes of the world.  I'm tempted to make my mission my idol rather than the man who died so that I may have life.  I used to want to be an astronaut, but I know now that the stars are even a small goal.  Every truly good thing I've experienced in this life points to God.  I want to know him, love him, and serve him.  If it happens that my work is to stick out to the world, then so be it.  More than likely though, it won't.  To the introvert - what a dream!  I've loved working with the people I get to everyday and for a good cause.  If someone is reading this, pray for me that I may have a simple heart. One after the Lord's own heart.  God Bless.

# Microsoft Built a Near-Science-Fiction Quantum Computer

[news.microsoft.com > Microsoft’s Majorana 1 chip carves new path for quantum computing - Source](https://news.microsoft.com/source/features/ai/microsofts-majorana-1-chip-carves-new-path-for-quantum-computing/)

So, apparently there's 22+ states of matter (some of them hypotheticals) and Microsoft made a new breakthrough (no cap) quantum computer that can house a million qubits by manifesting one of these theoretical states of matter.  It does so using what they're calling "topoconductors".  The material they've created is a monumental discovery alone.  

> The topoconductor, or topological superconductor, is a special category of material that can create an entirely new state of matter – not a solid, liquid or gas but a topological state. This is harnessed to produce a more stable qubit that is fast, small and can be digitally controlled, without the tradeoffs required by current alternatives. A new paper published Wednesday in Nature outlines how Microsoft researchers were able to create the topological qubit’s exotic quantum properties and also accurately measure them, an essential step for practical computing.
> 
> This breakthrough required developing an entirely new materials stack made of indium arsenide and aluminum, much of which Microsoft designed and fabricated atom by atom. The goal was to coax new quantum particles called Majoranas into existence and take advantage of their unique properties to reach the next horizon of quantum computing, Microsoft said.

Apparently, this was '20 years in the making' since Microsoft, unlike others trying to solve this problem, decided to try solving this problem by taking advantage of theoretical particles which could solve the previous issues.  

The way I see it, problems that were mathematically impossible to compute without quantum in our time are now possible.  Science is going so fast these days...some say a little too fast.