# Cyber Resiliency Discussion

The purpose of this discussion is to describe the cyber resiliency framework constructs, compare cyber resiliency framework constructs, and interpret the four cyber resiliency goals. This is important to build the foundation for cybersecurity resilience engineering.

# Rubric

## Initial Post

Your initial post did all of the following: it clearly addressed the prompt(s); it clearly indicated your comprehension of the relevant course material; it successfully analyzed the relevant course concepts; it goes above and beyond the prompt(s); and it’s very informative and well-organized. Graduate Extension: Includes additional research and exposes insights beyond the course materials; Characteristics of graduate-level academic writing with references.

## Reply

Each of your replies did all of the following: they indicated a clear comprehension of the message of your peer’s post; they successfully referenced course concepts; and they significantly supplemented, contrasted, or offered an alternate explanation to the content of the post. Graduate Extension: Includes additional research/insights and exposes insights beyond the course materials; Characteristics of graduate-level academic writing with appropriate citations.

# Posts

## Initial Post

There are 4 notable constructs which make up the cyber resiliency framework: objectives, techniques, approaches, and design principles. Cyber resilience is seen by cybersecuirty policy makers as a humble approach to designing better information systems.  The cyber resilience constructs are pieces to solving the problem of realistically managing threats which can never be completely avoided [2]. A framework for creating a resilient information system involves various objectives: preventing and avoiding, preparation, continuation, limiting damage, restoration, obtaining value from adverse situations, and transforming methods or frameworks which aid in the business’s primary solution.  Techniques are the general controls to reaching objectives of cyber resiliency. Techniques envelope the framing for implementing controls with information systems to reach such objectives and interests of an organization. Approaches are the sub-methods to using techniques to attain cyber resiliency. Structural and strategic design principles help to frame techniques and approaches in different ways. 

In order to solve a large-scale cyber resiliency problem, an organization needs to frame the problem in a way that can be digested and attacked in just the right way by just the right people. The relationships between these different constructs are not always obvious. As it goes, a framework is a way to frame our problem. Strategic design principles help an organization prioritize certain parts of an organization’s architecture. Even with an assumably resilient organization such as the military, it is still an inherent issue that the benefits for an attacker outweigh the costs of attacking [1]. This is why leadership needs to point cyber architects and teams to the right places through the use of strategic design principles. These principles then put the structural design principles and related decisions into the hands of those teams which understand the organization’s techinical architecture. These structural design principles help to prioritize on certain parts of an organization. Sometimes, approaches may be directly taken to solve certain issues, but most times certain techniques and other frameworks will need to be used to frame sub-problems of the overall cyber resilience problem of the organization. 

There are four goals of cyber resiliency: anticipate, withstand, recover, and adapt.  If an organization wants to be resilient, then they must be able to anticipate.  Firstly, that means admitting that attack is an unavoidable thing and that risks must be taken to be a good organization. Anticipating means understanding the conflicts of interest between attackers and defenders of an organization and having the ability to act on those realizations.  This could mean simply making it unprofitable to attack you. Withstanding attacks is also an important marker for cyber resiliency. Attacks will happen regardless of their success.  If an organization has to allocate too many resources to merely absorb an attack, then more work has to be done in the areas of architectural and control changes to have an organization that can exist in an environment where attacks are the norm. As mentioned before, cost-benefit ratio and things such as “risk appetite” are essential to resiliency. Recovery should be an area of contemplation for an organization. If the cost of defending an attack outweighs the cost of quickly recovering systems after an attack, then maybe the resources can be allocated elsewhere in the organization. Lastly, adaptation means an organization can adapt to en evolving environment of threats.  When efforts to anticipate likely threats doesn’t cover enough ground, adaptation can put out the fires.  

[1] McConnell, H.J.M., VADM, USN, RET, Grzegorzewski, M. (2022). Cybersecurity and Strategic Deterrence: Changing Adversary’s Risk Versus Reward Calculations. In: Farhadi, A., Sanders, R.P., Masys, A. (eds) The Great Power Competition Volume 3. Springer, Cham. [https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-04586-8_3](https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-04586-8_3)

[2] L. A. Bygrave, "Cyber Resilience versus Cybersecurity as Legal Aspiration," 2022 14th International Conference on Cyber Conflict: Keep Moving! (CyCon), 2022, pp. 27-43, doi: 10.23919/CyCon55549.2022.9811084.

## Replies