# In-Class Assignment 1: CH1-3 Risk MGMT

1. Explain the why security should be important for the company.
    1. There is always risk involved with running a company. The likelihood that a threat exposes a vulnerability will always be present. As a pharmaceutical company the personal information you store might be PHI and PII. The confidentiality and integrity of your customers data is important, and you must stay in regulation with healthcare laws.
2. What threats exists for Major Pharm?
    1. Unintentional threats caused by humans that are employed by the company might make an error inputting a customer’s data or accidentally add someone’s personal information to a location where anyone can view the data, which would cause a leak of information.
    2. Theres always a possibility of intentional threats that are caused by disgruntled employees or other competitors. Risk management and training employees to identify insider threats are a good idea to mitigate these types of threats. Another intentional threat could be advanced persistent threats that come from other organizations.
    3. Another threat would be hackers that want to gather as much PHI information as possible. As a pharmaceutical company all the health information for customers would be saved in a database and if that database was compromised there would be a lot of useful information that a hacker could use or sell.
3. What is the importance of an information security program?
    1. Within the company there are many departments with their own employees who have their own opinion on security and how much thought should be put towards securing the company's assets. Having a security program allows all employees to be brought to a general understanding of the importance of securing the data that is stored within the company. Risk management is involved with creating the balance between security and usability.
4. Is it required or optional for Major Pharm?
    1. It is required to stay compliant within the healthcare laws like HIPAA title II that includes the requirements for organizations that handle health information. Major Pharm is required to stay compliant within these governing agencies. Another example is FDA 21 CFR Part 11, this regulation spells out controls and audit requirements for clinical trial systems that use electronic records and signatures. Explain to the client why controls should be implemented
5. Explain to the client why controls should be implemented
    1. Controls are important to make sure there are set rules and baselines for a company's security tools to follow. Tools can be set to have controls to monitor logs and events that occur, but without fine tuned controls the list of logs and events might overwhelm the environment and crash the server. Another issue could be too many logs and events to look through. Controls are important to monitor security and how much is being viewed by the security team. There is always a balance between security and usability.
6. What can a company do to manage risks?
    1. Do some thorough and prioritized risk assessment.  Start with the obvious areas, hire individuals and subject matter experts, and create a team for doing this across the organization.  Make decisions on those risks (accept, mitigate, transfer to a 3rd party, or try to avoid it completely).  Select controls and solutions for the risks.  Implement and test these controls.  Lastly, always evaluate new solutions and controls for your risks or change your risk acceptance policies as the business changes.
7. What is residual risk?
    1. This is what’s left when you attempt to mitigate or reduce risk to an acceptable level (based on the CISO’s policy usually).  For example, a Web App Firewall (WAF) can be put into place to protect the website.  This stops most of the easier attacks or the low-hanging-fruit from being leveraged by threats.  However, this doesn’t account for any “zero-days” or brand new attacks.  A zero-day would then be a residual risk.
8. Explain to the senior personnel who is ultimately responsible for information security in Major Pharm
    1. We have done a preliminary risk investigation.  Our goal with risk management would be mainly to secure business functions and assets by creating systems and policies for assessing, mapping, and reducing risk in the organization.  Doing this is not simple.  It requires policies, training, large-scale problem solving, and likely hiring.  Neglecting risk makes company failure an eventuality, so we must have a process for managing it.
9. What is the relevance of security policies for Major Pharm?
    1. Major pharm is a pharmaceutical company which means that they have high risk assets and very important business functions which may have little room for error.  A security policy is essential in reducing risk, because, without it, different parts of the business or individuals will not understand what the acceptable level of risk is in their area of the company.  Without a security policy, one cannot ensure that the risk is being managed or understood completely in any other part of the organization.
10. Describe what Major Pharm should do to manage threats.
    1. Major Pharm needs well-defined security policies that make it easy for different departments to implement and understand relevant security controls and risks.  They can use insurance where the benefits are worth it (this can depend totally on the type of business). Use role-based access control and implement them with the “least-privilege” access principle. Implement Anti-Virus on the endpoints.  Protect the perimeter with a firewall at the very least and segment different networks if possible (especially in healthcare - HIPPA). Have training so that security champions can be cultivated in your organization or design a champions program.  Automate and design better processes wherever you can (eliminate, simplify, accelerate, and automate). Major Pharm should always validate inputs in software or web applications (”zero trust” principle).
11. List and describe Vulnerabilities and exploits pertaining to Major Pharm.
    1. Public facing web servers have vulnerabilities that can be exploited like Cross site Request Forgery or Cross Site Scripting. These vulnerabilities can be caused by a non-secured websites being injected with malicious code. DDOS attacks against the public facing website can be caused by a lack of firewall rules and detection systems. These attacks make the website unavailable. Phishing attacks are a vulnerability since there is contact information on the website. Hackers can call the company and impersonate another customer to gather PHI.
12. What are best practices Major Pharm could utilize?
    1. Some of the best practices for managing vulnerabilities would be to identify vulnerabilities, match the threat/vulnerability pairs, use as many of the mitigation techniques as feasible and perform vulnerability assessments. These steps would help the company identify vulnerabilities and give them the best chance to mitigate them to protect their systems and data. Hardening servers and using configuration management of their systems are also best practices for managing exploits.
13. Describe what Major Pharm should do to manage threats.
    1. Major Pharm needs well-defined security policies that make it easy for different departments to implement and understand releavant security controls and risks.  They can use insurance where the benefits are worth it (this can depend totally on the type of business). Use role-based access control and implement them with the “least-privelege” access principle. Implement Anti-Virus on the endpoints.  Protect the perimeter with a firewall at the very least and segment different networks by if possible (especially in healthcare - HIPPA). Have training so that security champions can be cultivated in your organization or design a champions program.  Automate and design better processes wherever you can (eliminate, simplify, accelerate, and automate). Major Pharm should always validate inputs in software or web applications (”zero trust” principle).
14. Describe what Major Pharm should do to manage threats.
    1. Major Pharm needs well-defined security policies that make it easy for different departments to implement and understand releavant security controls and risks.  They can use insurance where the benefits are worth it (this can depend totally on the type of business). Use role-based access control and implement them with the “least-privelege” access principle. Implement Anti-Virus on the endpoints.  Protect the perimeter with a firewall at the very least and segment different networks by if possible (especially in healthcare - HIPPA). Have training so that security champions can be cultivated in your organization or design a champions program.  Automate and design better processes wherever you can (eliminate, simplify, accelerate, and automate). Major Pharm should always validate inputs in software or web applications (”zero trust” principle).