---
aliases: []
tags: []
publish: true
permalink:
date created: Thursday, January 2nd 2025, 9:38 pm
date modified: Thursday, January 2nd 2025, 9:49 pm
---

[Parenthood](../../../../📁%2013%20-%20Religion,%20Ontology,%20Philosophy/Parenthood/Parenthood.md)

# Population Collapse

- This is honestly a scary possibility
- When you look at population graphs, populations have a change in acceleration that is incredibly negative.  In other words, population growth will go in the opposite direction in a short time.  
- Our responsibility is to understand why (usually due to a deceptively perceived increase in quality of life).  Then, we must react to it.
- Would people find unrest in some way and simply cause some civil war that reignites civilization into another "baby boom?"  Maybe civilization recorrects a bit quicker by deciding to value having families more.  An increased ratio of elderly to younger people is a problem though if population growth goes into the negative direction.  stability is fine...sure.  However, it begs several questions.
- A society only grows with giving and with that primary love and giving of self being done through a family in the teleological sense.  Language may change, but the fact of the matter is that life does mean something and people should not be mere slaves to their phones and technology.  Are people being satiated by technology and choosing it over families?  There was that one rat experiment where they showed how rats will choose drugs over actual food.  However, humanity is of a rationale kind.  Beautiful - yet broken.
- "Choose you this day whom ye will serve; … but as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord” ([Josh. 24:2, 15](https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/study/scriptures/ot/josh/24.2,15?lang=eng#p2)).
- Death and the afterlife - the "who" questions of everything are things we ought to ponder.  After all, eternity could be at stake.  Rather than be slaves to our flesh and worldly desire, I can only pray for a change in the hearts of those whose passions are under siege.  