---
aliases: []
tags: []
publish: true
permalink:
date created: Saturday, December 21st 2024, 12:36 pm
date modified: Saturday, December 21st 2024, 9:15 pm
---

# Basketball

#sports

- It's interesting, but I'm not sure I would enjoy it
- Height is game breaking because you can jump to get passes, shoot over people, and reach the ball a lot easier
- I don't like how one-sided the dynamics are when it comes to fouls

# To Get Up Early or Not To?

#health-and-wellness 

- Sleep leads to better exercise and dieting.  There's no doubt about that.
- Ultimately, you have to prioritize sleep over lots of things.
- However, I'm not sure the time that you get up matters
- Society surely starts at a certain time, but you either have free time before or after work, so it seems to even out either way.
- Although...that last part of the day tends to be not so productive, so maybe that's a reason to get up early.  Maybe it's easier to spend your time right when there's a bit of silence.  
- Silence leads to better prayer as well.  Silence magnifies those quiet parts of our lives that we are too afraid to face, and this is one noisy time with technology and the internet.

# Health & Wellness (where I'm at)

#fitness #health-and-wellness 

- Where we use our wills is everything
- You can talk about Maslow's hierarchy of needs or whatever really (honestly Psychology doesn't make sense - why so many intersections with other topics in weird ways)
- Health and wellness matters no matter what your goals are.  My goal is to be with God who is the source of all goodness...simple.  I want to love others and love my wife first which includes being healthy.  It has to be something that's prioritized

Sleep is #1:
- There's no doubt that sleep is the most important thing for health
- I could do better about this.  My biggest problem is that my brain just constantly goes till my body wears out.  I'm also really sensitive to heat (I run like a pizza oven) 
- One game-changer has been to pray before bed or talk to the wife before falling asleep for a long time.  
- If I died tomorrow, who cares about building some cool thing on the internet and staying up late to do it
- Contemplate or talk with someone you love before bed...simple
- Sleep is a practice of real death as well ("There is _no peace_, or _rest, for the wicked_, saith the Lord.").  You have to put your faith in something before you go to bed, and I'm gonna do my best to put all of it in the creator of the universe.

Weight loss, Muscle, Cardio:
- Time is limited so this is hard
- If I couldn't go to the gym (like I couldn't today), then I make sure to do something for a bit of challenge to the muscles.
- I did decline pushups today.  I've made it to about 30 regular pushups which is way better than it's ever been

Macro Factor:
- I really like this app so far
- It using a moving average to show my weight which accounts for all of the factors that cause your weight to fluctuate. 
- It encourages me to think in the long-term and focuses on consistency more than anything.
- Forget my fitness pal - and they were on HaveIbeenPwned (password breach)

